# HARTI
This is a repository that contains Python code for statistical analysis that was performed during the research study. Study results are summarized in the article titled "The Incidence And Outcomes Of Healthcare-associated Respiratory Tract Infections In Non-ventilated Neurocritical Care Patients: Results Of A 10-year Cohort Study".
Study abstract:
The incidence of healthcare-associated respiratory tract infections in non-ventilated patients (NVA-HARTI) in neurosurgical intensive care units (ICU) is unknown. The impact of NVA-HARTI on patient outcomes and differences between NVA-HARTI and ventilator-associated healthcare-associated respiratory tract infections (VA-HARTI) are poorly understood. Our objectives were to report the incidence, hospital length of stay (LOS), ICU LOS, and mortality in NVA-HARTI patients and compare these characteristics to VA-HARTI patients in neurosurgical ICU. This cohort study was conducted in a neurosurgical ICU in Moscow; infection prevention protocol was introduced there in 2010. From 2011 to 2020, all patients with an ICU LOS >48h were included. All-cause in-hospital death was used for mortality estimates. A competing risk model was used for survival and risk analysis. A total of 3,937 ICU admissions were analyzed. NVA-HARTI vs VA-HARTI results were: cumulative incidence 7.2 (95%CI: 6.4-8.0) vs 15.4 (95%CI: 14.2-16.5) per 100 ICU admissions; incidence rate 4.2±2.0 vs 9.5±3.0 per 1000 patient-days in the ICU; median LOS 32 [Q1Q3: 21, 48.5] vs 46 [Q1Q3: 28, 76.5] days; median ICU LOS 15 [Q1Q3: 10, 28.75] vs 26 [Q1Q3: 17, 43] days; mortality 12.3% (95%CI: 7.9-16.8) vs 16.7% (95%CI: 13.6-19.7). The incidence of VA-HARTI decreased over ten years while NVA-HARTI incidence did not change. VA-HARTI was found to be an independent risk factor of death, odds ratio 1.54 (1.11-2.14) while NVA-HARTI was not. Our findings suggest that NVA-HARTI in neurosurgical ICU patients represents a significant healthcare burden with relatively high incidence and associated poor outcomes. Unlike VA-HARTI, the incidence of NVA-HARTI remained constant despite preventive measures. This suggests that extrapolating VA-HARTI research findings to NVA-HARTI should be avoided.

The database used in this analysis as well as data dictionary can be found here: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5597750

Files include:
1. _HARTI-[1-6]*.ipynb_ files contain python code for all steps of data analysis included in the article
2. _helpers.py_ is a list of used libraries and functions
3. _antibiotics_class.json_ file containes a dictionary to assign antibiotic class to a antibiotic drug name. The file is used in _HARTI-1-Data.ipynb_ notebook.
